Right now, jumping back over to our time test class, I want to show you just a couple more techniques
that I think are kind of cool and to show you this, we'll just play with one of our variables that
we've already created.
Let's use our first local date, which we labeled as D1.
All right, so down here, I'm going to reference D1 Dot and then we're going to use the with method.
OK, just this first one here with and that takes something called a temporal adjuster.
This sounds like a Doctor Who episode, doesn't it?
A temporal adjuster, but it is something that can make adjustments to time, I suppose.
And so basically, there are a lot of ways that we can play with this.
But one of the key things that I want to show you first is that there are a bunch of so-called temporal
adjusters that come already made with the Java, and they allow us to do various types of adjustments,
with time basically warping time in ways that humans might say in English, like, you know, for example,
the Friday after next.
You know, if you're on a certain date now and you're talking about the Friday after next or the next
Friday or next Thursday or things like that.
So this date time API comes with a number of adjusters that represent concepts along those lines.
Let me show you what I mean.
So to access them, you will reference the temporal adjusters class and notice the SE here because there's
also a temporal adjuster.
OK.
We don't want that for what I'm about to show you.
We want it with the SE.
OK, so temporal adjusters dot and then you'll see that there are a bunch of pretende methods that spit
out instances of a temporal adjuster.
OK.
This reminds me a little bit of all of the static helper methods that exist on the collectors class.
So looking at these, we've got a next.
So basically, what this means is from the date that we're specifying here the D1, whatever that date
is, create another date that starts at that same point in time D1 and then generate a new date, which
would represent the next and then whatever day of the week in this particular case.
So let's say you wanted to figure out the next Tuesday from that date on day one.
OK, so you can choose next and then it takes something called a day of week.
And this is just an enum and enumeration with the days of the week.
OK.
So if we wanted what is it, Tuesday, next Tuesday, we could just select that.
And so what that's going to return is a new local date, which will represent the following Tuesday
after whatever this date is right here D1.
OK, so what was it we make that that was 2001, January 1st.
So if we print this out?
Let's see what day that is.
So that would be the fourth.
OK.
All right.
So let's look at some other things that we can do with that.
So that's next.
We've got a last day of month, so whatever month this D1 was in, if you wanted to find out what day
would be the last day in that month, you could choose this and that would return a new local date.
Rather, the the with method would return a new local date.
First day of the year, obviously it's going to be the first, but if you wanted to know what day of
the week it was here, we can do that first day of the year.
Oops.
First day of the year, now in this particular case, the first day of that year is going to be the
one because we already set it to January 1st, so maybe let's not do that, let's do the last day of
the year.
Last day of the year.
All right.
And then we can find out we can get the day of the week.
So the last day of the year, 2000 was apparently a Sunday.
So you get it.
There's so many of these adjusters that come out of the box, we won't go through all of these, but
I'll just show a few more.
Let's see.
First day of the month.
Last day of the month, you can get a previous just like you can get a next.
So a number of really useful methods here and you can create your own as well, although I think that's
going to be beyond the scope of what I want to get into in this course at this time.
So let me just mention one thing about these with methods.
So let me delete that, and I'm going to make another reference to one with.
So we've also got these other versions of with like with day of month, month, year, day of year.
So here's the deal.
All of these new daytime classes local date, local time, local date, time zone, date time, et cetera,
et cetera.
When you create instances of these classes, those instances are all designed to be immutable.
Immutable is a term that you'll hear from time to time in software development, and it just means that
you can't change the properties of that object after it has been created.
This is considered to be a very desirable trait of objects frequently in programming, especially when
you deal with functional programming styles.
And the reason is basically this.
Imagine that one bit of code in an application generates some objects and passes those objects into
another part of code.
And let's even imagine that these two parts of code in this application were written by two different
teams.
Team A who is sending their objects into Team B's code may likely have an expectation that their objects
aren't going to be modified by Team B's code, and that's an important expectation to have because even
the team is sending their object into Team B's code team and may want to or need to continue utilizing
that same object later on in their own code.
And if Team B's code has modified or altered that object in unexpected ways, that could cause bugs
in the code, especially in teams code.
And so it's generally considered to be a much safer practice to pass immutable objects to code, especially
code that you may not have written, especially then, so that you can ensure that there won't be any
unintended consequences or side effects.
So the date time API just embraces the immutable pattern throughout, but that comes with some consequences.
That means that when we create an instance of a local data or time or any of these other classes, and
we want to change some property of one of those objects, we can't just make a change.
Instead, what we can do is we can basically clone an object and change things in the clone as it's
being cloned.
That's what we can do.
And that's what these with methods generally allow us to do.
They allow us to start from a starting point like the one here and then we can say, OK, given that
we've got this object, I want to change the the month or the year or the day of year or something along
those lines, right?
But leave the other fields alone.
So that's kind of like your starting point.
So this is a way that we can change an object without actually changing that very same object.
So currently, this one represents January 1st of the year, 2000.
So if we wanted to change the month to march, that's easy enough to do.
We can just do this, and actually let's just print that out.
All right, so there you go.
So now you got the year 2000, March 1st, right?
And you could keep daisy chaining these if you wanted to.
So I could call with again and change the day of the month and let's make it the 15th.
So now what's going to actually happen here is we've got this D-1 object that represents January 1st,
2000, and then we're calling with month of three.
And so that's going to create another object now based on January 1st, 2000, except it won't be January
anymore.
Now it'll be March 1st, 2000, and then we're making yet a third object now that's based off of the
March 1st, 2000, but now it'll be March 15, 2000.
Okay, so that's what's happening there.
We're not changing the original objects.
We're actually creating new objects.
Each time we're calling the with method, they're.
And we'll just run that real quick.
All right, so there you go.
So now 20, March 15.
So let me just briefly recap the most important things that I wanted to show and convey in this lesson,
which by the time you watch it, I probably will have broken it up because I know it's like excessively
long.
So obviously, we wanted to just see some of the core techniques for how to create dates and times and
date times, right?
And put them together.
So we've seen that.
I also wanted to make sure that you understand the concept of time zones and how important they are,
particularly when you're saving date and time information to a database or a data store or something
like that.
You really have to care about what those times mean in relation to location, right?
If you want some event to occur at a particular date and time, that should be with respect to a location,
right?
Because what is 12:00 p.m. in New York City is not 12 p.m. at the same time in London, for example.
So we saw how we can add time zone information to a date time.
And we also saw how we can determine what that same time would be at that same moment in time, in another
locale or in another time zone.
Right.
And that's extremely important as well.
And we're looking at it right there on Line thirty three by using the with zone same instance and then
we can specify what the what the other time zone would be.
Additionally, we also saw how we can pass dates and times that are represented as strings of text to
become actual date time objects using the date, time, format or class, and we can reverse that operation
as well and return a text representation of a local date or a local time.
And I should mention that that's an extremely important technique to use.
Some of you might wonder why wouldn't we have simply retained the text form of the date or the time
in our person class, for example?
And in my experience and observation, a lot of naive developers may actually do that.
But one unfortunate issue with that is that when you leave dates and times represented as text, you
lose the intelligence of being able to make calculations based on dates.
So for example, where we were calculating the age, we were able to simply let the date time API methods
determine that for us very easily.
You'd have to do a lot more work if you wanted to write that same code yourself.
And why do that?
Because, you know, Java is already doing it for us.
Similarly, if we wanted to sort and order people by some date time field, that's trivial to do because
the date time classes already implement comparator.
And so we could easily have them sorted by any of those date time fields for us and applying filters
and all kinds of other things where we want to have more contextual awareness of the fact that these
are date time fields that we're working with.
Whereas if we had used just a simple string or text, you wouldn't have any of that context awareness.
So I'm going to go ahead and now wrap up this conversation on dates and times.
And I think we've now covered all of the typical use cases that I've ever encountered as a software
developer when I have to work with dates and times.
So I think you're ready to go forward and conquer with this information.
And with that, I'll see you in the next one.